---
title:  "Why I'm currently reading four books at once."
date:   2016-11-06 13:00:00
categories: musings
excerpt: "<p>If I'm being totally honest, the answer to this question would be pretty short: My self-control and focus are not what they used to be.</p>

<p>But that doesn't make for a particularly interesting blog. </p>

<p>The four books I'm reading I've categorized (i.e. justified) in the following way: \"work related learning\", \"non-work related learning\", \"emotional growth\", and \"recovery from the other books\".</p>"
---

If I'm being totally honest, the answer to this question would be pretty short: My self-control and focus are not what they used to be.

But that doesn't make for a particularly interesting blog. 

The four books I'm reading I've categorized (i.e. justified) in the following way: "work related learning", "non-work related learning", "emotional growth", and "recovery from the other books".

The book I'm reading for work is [_Fluent Python_](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920032519.do), by Luciano Ramalho. I've been trying to read this book for several months now. I'm maybe 70 pages in. But the reason I'm only 70 pages in is because I'm using it as a crash course to all the things in python I don't know about. Every page of this book contains maybe 1 - 5 things i didn't know about, so I then spend 15 - 20 minutes figuring out what each of those things are. There's no skimming through this book for me. There's no "oh I already know how this works, let's move right along shall we". To be frank, this book is miles ahead of where I am right now, but I got really sick of underestimating myself. I've tried to go through so many different beginner python tutorials, that I end up just rolling my eyes at and walking away. I then continue using the same tactics that I already know, because they work and I don't what to read about `for` loops again for the 100th time. By forcing myself to go through a book that's too advanced for me, I'm beginning to fill in that gap of "I don't know what I don't know." This book is more than happy to tell me everything I don't know, and there's a _lot_ I don't know. Which is good. I'm working on it.

My non-work related learning book fills the gap left by academia. Now that I'm out of college and not operating an four hours of sleep and a three day hangover, I miss the days of assigned reading, discussing theories, new ideas, and stretching my world view. So I started a book club with two of my friends and started assigning my own reading. Currently, we're going through [*Second Sex*](https://www.amazon.com/Second-Sex-Simone-Beauvoir/dp/030727778X) by Simone de Beauvoir, and it's fantastic. I thought it would be much more difficult than it is, but despite being an incredibly dense and large philosophy book, Simone manages to pull you in with dry wit, and rhetorical sparring with the ideas of her contemporary authors of the time, and it is fascinating. I get excited about reading this book, but it's not a book that allows me to turn my brain off and enjoy.

My 'emotional growth' books fall into that category of literature that are usually beautifully written, have important and urgent stories to tell, and are ultimately exhausting to read. They're the kind of books that you're glad you read, but you don't walk away feeling good about the state of the world, and you definitely shouldn't read them right before going to bed. *Bell Jar* or *The Glass Castle* for example. [*Olive Kitteridge*](https://www.amazon.com/Olive-Kitteridge-Elizabeth-Strout/dp/0812971833) is my work of choice this month, and word of warning, this is not a good book to read if you're in a serious, young, and happy relationship. In a series of vinyets, it peels back the layers of sadness, hope, trust, heartbreak, and habit that make up relationships that have lasted decades. It looks at the complex relationships that make up families, and the reasons why relationships and people fall apart. It's a beautiful book, but after five nights of reading it before bed, I got tired of picturing all of the ways my relationship could potentially end in the next couple of decades and decided I should maybe relegate *Olive Kitteridge* to daytime reading only.

After deciding I wasn't allowed to read any of these books before bed (because that's when I should be winding my brain down, not sending it off on wild adventures), I went out and bought a "recovery from the other books" book. I hadn't realized until I was trying to pick one out that I am so drawn to 'emotional growth' books. After forcing myself to walk past _Game of Thrones_, _Fahrenheit 451_, _Catch 22_, and anything by _Junot Diaz_, I stumbled across [*Romeo and/or Juliet*](http://romeoandorjuliet.com/). I'll admit my fondness for Shakespeare has grown over the recent years (having someone very passionate about it expound upon it in great detail almost daily certainly helps (and if it wasn't helping this relationship would be doomed)), so the cover caught my attention. It turns out it's the same author, Ryan North, who created the "To Be or Not To Be" Hamlet based choose your own adventure game that my friend introduced me to. If you haven't read/played anything by him and you have even a modest understanding of Shakespeare, I highly recommend you give me a shot. He manages to make fun of Shakespeare in a way that's incredibly clever, and shows just how much time he's spent studying him in depth. There are several trillion different paths that your adventure can take, some of them following the more traditional Romeo and Juliet path (with a few "gosh if they had just talked to each other" endings that are hilarious), while others result in you swashbuckling with pirates or fighting a robot invasion. It's hilarious, absurd, and requires just the right amount of mental engagement to help me wind down to go to sleep.

I used to chastise myself for considering starting a new book before I was finished with an old one, but now I realize that's just ridiculous. If I'm capable of watching multiple TV shows at any given time and can remember the plot lines of each, I can do so with books as well, and I'm much happier for it. Maybe one of these days I'll actually finish one of them.
