---
title:  "Good technology in the hands of terrible people"
date:   2016-6-6 3:00:00
categories: musings
excerpt: "<p>I, like many people, prefer to assume that people are inherently good, and we build apps with (I would hope) the best of intentions. However, this doesn't mean we can ignore the hidden costs of our technology. No matter how benign we may believe the app to be, we have to ask: if I were a terrible person, how would I use this for evil?</p>"
---

I'm definitely not the first person to say this (nor, unfortunately, will I be the last), but as creators and builders we has a [responsibility](http://www.slate.com/articles/technology/safety_net/2015/02/venmo_security_it_s_not_as_strong_as_the_company_wants_you_to_think.html) to think through the [implications](http://www.cbsnews.com/news/the-rising-safety-issues-that-could-throttle-uber/) of what we're building. No matter how benign we may believe the app to be, we have to ask: if I were a terrible person, how would I use this for evil?

I, like many people, prefer to assume that people are inherently good, and we build apps with (I would hope) the best of intentions. However, this doesn't mean we can ignore the hidden costs of our technology. Take the time to think through every possible, twisted scenario that could arise. If you can't think of a _single_ situation where someone could use this for nefarious purposes, _find someone who can._ This is yet another benefit of diversity: your worldview and experiences are going to be completely different from someone else's. Especially someone of a different gender or race. We all have amazing powers of empathy, but that is so different from someone who's lived it. They'll think of things that would never occur to you, and that's okay. I would argue that's a good thing.

Diversity is (obviously) incredibly important to me, but it really hits home for me when thinking about the scary side of technology. It struck me particiulary hard when I downloaded [Gyroscope](https://gyrosco.pe/) and integrated it with [Moves](https://www.moves-app.com/0). Let me start by saying: I love these apps. They're beautiful, they're simple, and they're a really great way to track your health, fitness, steps, productivity, sleep patterns, habits, etc. etc. The possibility for improving people's lives is incredible. But the same things that make these apps great, are also what scare the daylights out of me.

Unlike something like 4Square which requires you to check into places (actively opt-in to admitting you were somewhere), Moves constantly tracks where you are, how you got there, and how long you stayed. It turns this information into a convenient map, and translates activities into calories burned. This is great if you want to track habits and remember that one bar you went to that one time. But what happens when someone else gets ahold of this information? I can hear some of you thinking "but really, the company isn't going to do anything with my _personal_ information, and what do I care if a stranger has this info?" Remember what I said at the top: [what if I were a terrible person?](http://stoprelationshipabuse.org/educated/types-of-abuse/use-of-technology/)

Personal story time: A long, long time ago, I, like so many other women I've talked to over the years, made a terrible dating choice and ended up in an unhealthy, manipulative relationship. Everything I did was watched. Friends I added on Facebook, new contacts in my phone, you name it. Anything and everything could be used as ammunition against me. It's a long story for another time, but I bring it up because Moves would have been a nightmare for me. He could have installed it on my phone without my knowledge, and checked it at any given time. Sure, it would have been on my phone, but if you think I was allowed to have a password that's very optimistic of you. When something as innocusous as a [Spotify music update can be used for evil](https://modelviewculture.com/pieces/without-scars-domestic-violence-abuse-and-the-tech-pipeline), image the damage that Moves could do.

I'm not saying Moves shouldn't exist. Now, several years and many states of separation have granted me a sense of security, so now I love Moves. What I'm saying is that we need to think about the worst of the worst. The bottom-of-the-barrel "no one is really like this" situations. Think about them, ask other people, ask yourself what you can do to improve security and privacy. We owe it to our users.